# AbaloneProjGB

The Abalone dataset has 4177 rows and 9 features. For the task assigned to me the target variable is ‘Sex’ which is a multiclass with values ‘F’, ‘I’ and ‘M’. The  8 numerical variables are ‘Length', 'Diameter', 'Height', 'Whole_weight', 'Shucked_weight', 'Viscera_weight', 'Shell_weight', 'Rings'. Using the Pycaret’s default setup with a train to test ratio of 70:30 and 10-fold stratified cross validation(cv) various machine learning (ML) models have been applied to the dataset. The best ML classifier for this setup is Logistic Regression with performance metrics scores were accuracy:0.5549, recall:0.5549, precision:0.5462 and F1:0.5370. The next setup was the default setup with polynomial features and best ML classifier for this setup was Logistic Regression with performance metrics scores were accuracy:0.5744, recall:0.5744, precision:0.5638 and F1:0.5604. The next setup was the default setup with removing multicollinearity above 0.9 and the best classifier for this setup was ‘Linear Discriminant Analysis’ with performance metrics scores were accuracy:0.5464, recall:0.5464, precision:0.5359 and F1:0.5184. The next setup was default setup with minmax normalization, and the best classifier was Logistic Regression with performance metrics scores were accuracy:0.5566, recall:0.5566, precision:0.5484 and F1:0.5400. The metrics for setup with polynomial features are better, but the number of variables is far more than the other setups, the next best is setup with minmax normalization. Ensembing the top 3 ML models ranked based on the F1 scores in the setup with minmax normalization namely Logistic Regression, Linear Discriminant Analysis Gradient Boosting classifier formed Voting Classifier and Stacking Classifier. The performance metrics for Voting Classifier are accuracy:0.5594, recall: 0.5594, precision: 0.5473 and F1: 0.5447. The performance metrics for Stacking classifier are accuracy:0.5648, recall: 0.5648, precision: 0.5580 and F1: 0.5553. Choosing Stacking classifier as the best ML model (best-model.pkl), using Flask and Google Cloud Platform (GCP) the model is deployed and can be accessed with this link https://rangaranga108.ue.r.appspot.com/ and the video is at this link https://drive.google.com/file/d/1C2Kr9EzSh_zH3Id1GG7F-qBWZh94wpVe/view?usp=sharing
